hi welcome to video games visited today
we're going to be playing The Lion King
on the game gear this game is a
side-scrolling platformer game based on
the movie at the very same name it takes
place across ten different levels and
roughly follows the plot of the movie in
fact I'd go as far as to say it does a
good job of following the movie it's
only the lack of animations and
cutscenes but let it down in this
respect across these ten levels you'll
find yourself in the African plains
jungle the elephant graveyard series of
caves and even to Pride Rock for the
final stage there are even regular bonus
levels where you get to play as Pumbaa
in a mini game where you catch as many
bugs as you can the level designs are
all very unique and well put together
and look great too I must say I was a
little disappointed that we didn't have
the same Stampede level that the 16-bit
versions had I remember how impressive
the head-on view of the Stampede was at
the time and I'd never really seen
anything like it sadly in the game gear
version this has been replaced with a
side-scrolling action sequence which was
not quite as impressive it's still quite
fun and I can understand that the game
get probably couldn't have coped with
the Stampede level like the 16-bit
consoles were treated to majority of
these levels you'll find yourself either
climbing or descending to reach the end
of the level and to achieve this there
are lots of interactive parts of the
scenery that allow you to swing jump and
bounce off of them to get to your
intended destination the platforming
staples of water hazards enemies and
even environmental hazards have of
course been included to keep the game
entertaining and they're all implemented
very nicely as with a lot of these
virgin interactive disney games the
character animations fantastic
especially on Simba the movements are
very fluid and fit together smoothly
start the game as cub simba and you're
only ability is jumping and a rather
pathetic sounding raw thankfully this
raw can stun some enemies leaving you
free to bounce on top of thurman kilvin
other enemies have to either be avoided
or pounced on to be killed and health
can be regained by eating small bugs
like in the movie after you cross a
certain point symbol mature into adult
Simba gaining the ability to swipe at
enemies to kill them however even with
this ability the combat still isn't much
fun and involves more standing in front
of an enemy and frantically pressing the
button than dispatching at them in a
satisfying manner it would have been
nice to
feel like more of a bad asses adult
Simba and to me the combat is the
weakest point of the game overall this
is a great platform in game and is
certainly worth the play however is
probably worth noting that it's not the
easiest game in the world it will take a
bit of practice to get through it and I
remember being very critical of how hard
the game was when it was first released
with the exception of the last boss
which has got to be one of the easiest
and bosses in gaming history but
thankfully it's for good reason as it
ties in nicely with the ending of the
movie which as I said earlier is a
recurring theme in this game and I think
it actually being a movie game that ties
in with the movie kind of elevates it
status and gives it a point of
respectability because I for one cannot
stand playing a movie game that's got
absolutely nothing to do with the film
especially if as a fan of the film and
it's great to see it done so well here
so that's about it to the lion king I
hope you enjoyed the video and I'll see
you next time take care
you